So, guys, welcome back.
This section of the course is dedicated to learning for stages of the compilation of a program.
This is a very bad interview question and one of the most commonly asked questions.
So let us see in detail that what are the four stages that are involved in the compilation process of
a program?
So you can see on the screen the four stages which are involved in the complete completion of a process
from beginning to end is the pre processing stage, then completion stage, followed by the assembler
stage.
And then last stage of the completion process is the linking stage.
So let us first discuss each of these stages briefly, then I will show you the demonstration, how
a given program can be compiled stage by stage and we will see that.
What are the changes in the program takes place as the program compiles to these stages.
So the very first stage of the compilation process is the pre processing stage.
The program that you write by your own hand and Ed is an input to the pre processing stage.
So in preprocessing stage, mainly, the tax substitution is done and the preprocessing directives are
executed.
Now, what are preprocessing directives, all the statements in your program, which starts with the
hash, are called preprocessing directives, for example, hash include has defined hash if defined,
etc..
We have already discussed the tech substitution in pretty much detail in the beginning section of the
scores.
That once the preprocessing of the program is done, the resultant program is actually fitted to another
component of the compiler, which is actually called COMPILER.
So not that technically speaking, the completion process is the second stage of a competition process
in our day to day life, we usually call all these four stages collectively as a compilation.
But technically speaking, the compilation is actually the second stage of completion process.
So you can see that to the completion process, the input is the tax substituted C-code and the compiler
generates an assembly code as an output.
So assembly is a programming language, and it is the compiler which takes an input that substituted,
scored, and in turn it generates an assembly code, right?
This assembly code is equivalent in functionality to the tax substituted C code, which was fitted to
this compiler, then this assembly code, which is generated by the compiler, is Lanfredi to the third
component of the compiler called Assembler.
So assembler is that component of the compiler, which takes an input to the assembly code and produces
the machine code or binary code.
Now once you have a compile code, compile calls me your dot, all files, that is object files.
If there are more than one object files, then all of these object files can be.
Grouped together in order to form a library, right?
We have already learned that library is nothing, but it is a collection of object files and other object
files.
Object files are nothing, but they are compiled machine code or binary code, which is produced by
the assembler.
And the second option is that that if you do not want to reduce your program into a library, then you
must object to your program, to the linking process and finally produce an executable.
But your program can be subjected to the linking process only under one condition that your program
must have a main function.
Unless you are programmed to not have a main function, it cannot be subjected to linking.
So linking is a process of creating an executable from the compiled machine called our Object Files.
Now, you must have understood why I am calling executable executable is a program which is compiled
already and can execute on a processor, and we know that for a program to execute on a processor,
the program should have a main function.
Right.
So linking is a process of translating the object files of the group of object files together to form
a final executable which can execute on the processing.
So not that the preprocessor the compiler, assembler and Linko are generally together tromped as compiler
only, right?
So these are the four stages of the compilation process beginning from the preprocessing stage up to
the linking stage, and you should remember the sequence of these stages, not only that, for each
stage, you should remember that what is the input to that stage and what that particular stage produces?
An output.
So remember these kind of a flow chart and remember that if you want to create a library, a library
is nothing.
But it is a bunch of object files put together.
Right.
And in order to create a library, you are programmed to not have to go through the lengthy process.
But in order to create a final executable, your program has to go through the linking process.
Now, next, we will take a sample program and we will subject that program step by step to each of
these four stages of the completion process and actually see the things in action.
And.